#summary IEEE Floating Point Standard for Humans

=The IEEE Floating Point Standard=

*This is a work in progress! I'll be obsessively updating this as time goes on!*

===Table of Contents===
<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

===Arithmetic Formats===
The IEEE 754 standard defines "representations of values and symbols" and may also include how they are encoded.

Within the standard, a format comprises:
  * Finite numbers
  * Positive and negative infinity
  * Two forms of NaN (Not a number symbol)

====Finite Numbers====
Finite numbers can be expressed in either binary or decimal forms.

No matter what base the number is in, finite numbers are always described as the result of the function:
(-1)^s * c * b^q
Where s represents the sign of the value (and is thus limited to the values 0 or 1), c represents the coefficient (or the integer value), b represents the base (and is thus limited to the values 2 or 10), and q represents the exponent.

Thus, the value of -54.2 would be expressed as the following equation:
(-1)^1 * 542 * 10^-1

There are technically constraints surrounding the possible values of c and q, but, in most instances, they can be ignored. Since these are probably important for the implementation of this standard, they will be included later on.

====NaN====
NaNs are special values that are used when the value that's supposed to be expressed is either undefined or unpresentable.

There are two different kinds of NaN: The quiet NaN (qNaN) and the signaling NaN (sNaN).

===Interchange Formats===

===Rounding Rules===

===Operations===

===Exception Handling===

===Works Cited===
  * [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_floating_point Wikipedia page on the IEEE 754 Standard]
